Egyptian officials say mediators have
made progress in talks aimed at a truce
in Gaza representatives from the US
Egypt Israel and Qatar are meeting in
Cairo as international calls grow for
Israel to put off a planned assault on
the southern city of Rua more than 1
million civilians are crammed into Rua
many fled there from Israeli attacks in
other parts of the Gaza Strip Israel
meanwhile says Rafa is the last Bastion
of Hamas the militant group that
committed the October the 7th Terror
attacks Aid agencies are saying the
people in Rafa would have nowhere to go
if an Israeli ground attack took place
on Monday US President Joe Biden said
Washington was working on a deal to
release Israeli hostages and bring what
he called immediate and sustained calm
to Gaza for at least 6 weeks partnership
between the United States and our allies
now according to gaza's health Ministry
which is run by Hamas more than 28,000
Palestinians have died in the violence
so far and currently for the living
there are no good
options their few remaining possessions
are
packed the road to an uncertain future
lies
ahead this is the reality for hundreds
of thousands of gazen refugees in their
desperate search for
safety we hope the war ends and ends
quickly we're tired fleeing from one
city to another we're so tired I swear
to God people are tired I'm hoping the
world stands with us and looks at us
with a kind and merciful eye we're tired
but always crying mon shelling
destruction death starvation thirst
there's no
food some 1.3 million Gins had found
respite from the fighting here in Rafa
following Israel's orders
but Israel's plant offensive in the city
threatens what little safety Rafa can
provide there are few options available
to the people living in Rafa they could
travel North to Central Gaza Al maasi or
k
Yunis but heavy fighting as much of
those areas in
Ruins leaving civilians like these faced
with a desperate
Choice there simply is no place to flee
two uh Central and Northern Gaza have
been uh the sites of of increased of
intense fighting uh Northern Gaza has
been basically reduced to Rubble there
are no facilities uh or accommodations
there able to to uh host uh people
fleeing for safety on top of that
there's the the added risk of unexploded
ordinances throughout all of Gaza but
particularly in the north where there
was quite heavy air strikes uh early on
in the first few months of of this
escalation uh and on top of that people
have fled multiple times they have
nothing with them nothing they have very
little belongings the United States the
European Union and the United Nations
have urged the IDF to do more to protect
civilians caught up in the
fighting but as Rafa comes under
increasing fire it remains unclear if
anywhere is safe for the people of
Gaza Nowa bin Mubarak Alani is leurer in
the field of international relations and
defense he's also a former director of
Defense intelligence operations in Qatar
I asked him to tell us where the truth
talks stand right
now well from the reports what we can
say uh Ana is that the talks are
progressing positively uh and hopefully
we can see results soon unfortunately
however there is actions on the other
direction happening from the IDF that
may threaten any uh advance in those
talks especially in regards to Rafa okay
what are some of the the major gaps that
still need to be bridged right now in
these uh
negotiations well obviously the uh
escalatory um uh scene right now from a
military standpoint has to be um
addressed the current situation Rafa is
untable uh it is uh right now the last
uh uh place where refugees have some
sort of calm uh relative obviously it's
been shattered right now with the
bombings and the fear of a land
incursion just may threaten all of that
so that situation right now in Rafa
looms uh over all negotiations that one
might expect
obviously Israel is facing a huge
ational criticism even from its main
Ally the US is the fact that the CIA
Chief is now also at the negotiating
table is that key to making Israel
accept a
deal well this is not the first time for
the uh director of Central Intelligence
to be part of the negotiation this has
been a standing situation where the
director of Central Intelligence was
always part of the negotiation
however the rhetoric from the US's side
has ramped up uh last week we saw uh
from the National Security Council in
the White House directives for any
country receiving military aid to adhere
to humanitarian international law that
is a new advance in in a persuasion if
you will if not pressure for the
Israelis to back down from further
escalation militarily so I think that is
where we're going and the Americans have
done a lot they could do more obviously
uh but we're coming to a head right now
where there are two escalatory
situations happening from the air and
probably the second from the ground soon
that may threaten that delicate balance
we have right now in the 11th Hour of
negotiations Hammer officials are clear
they say any major attack on Rafa will
lead to an end of any further
negotiations do you see any signs that
Israel is listening is taking this
warning
seriously well to be honest uh the
European Union not only Hamas but the
European Union uh Great Britain the
United States Qatar and Egypt and most
of Israel's Partners allies and
obviously the negotiators have advised
Israel and warned Israel to not Advance
into Rafa the Israelis have not shown
any signal that they're backing down now
they may do that but they haven't
signaled as much the current kinetic
operations are advancing the devastation
is continuing unfortunately and with
this new escalation today of killing
journalists and wounding journalists uh
today two journalists were wounded from
alzer in the past 48 Hours four
journalists were killed doesn't send a
good message that the Israelis are not
planning to move forward with the
invasion of Rafa unfortunately however
the us and the EU still has still have
pressure points we've seen it in the
past and hopefully it will continue to
con you know convey the the idea that
both War and Peace cannot exist at the
same time all right we'll have to leave
it there NAA bin Mubarak Al Tani thank
you so much for your time and your
analysis
there thank you very much an the
situation in Rafa was on the agenda
today in Berlin where Germany's foreign
minister analina Bok met her Palestinian
counter Bri Mal for talks here's what
she had to
say we've seen hundreds of thousands of
people lose their homes in the past
months of course they need
shelter they went to the South where
there were already several refugee
camps that's why we made it clear that
the over 1 million people in the area
can't just disappear into thin
air they need safe corridors to get to
safety like they did in the
beginning and that is our
responsibility I've made it as clear as
possible there cannot just be safe
places in corridors in
theory they have to exist in
reality our chief political
correspondent nah haza elicited that
response from the German foreign
minister tell us more about the meeting
Nina well it's not the first time of
course that analina babok and Riad
al-maliki have met um analina babok has
been to the region four times since the
7th of October when Hamas the terrorist
organization launched this brutal attack
on Israel so uh Riad Al Maliki thanked
her for her efforts in trying to
exercise essentially a bit of pressure
on both sides so that this conflict ends
and Alena Bach's message is always there
is suffering on all sides so she does
mention that there are still um more
than a 100 hostages that are being kept
by Hamas and that Israel does have the
right to defend itself against that sort
of terrorism but at the same time she
says nobody can Overlook the suffering
that is going on in Gaza and today at
this meeting she reiterated again Israel
does have the right to defend itself but
it does not have the right to expel
anybody from essentially what is
Palestinian territory and both uh
foreign ministers expressed their big
concern over an escalation of the
situation in Rafa which is why they
stress so much that there need to be
safe corridors for the people who have
fled to the south of Gaza exactly
because there was this big military
operation in the north of Gaza we all
know that there is no option for the
Palestinians to flee further south Egypt
is not willing to take refugees in from
the Gaza Strip so U there need to be
safe corridors and an Alena babok is
going to tell the Israeli counterparts
she's going to be meeting again later on
this week that they need to make sure
that a humanitarian disaster is avoided
you mentioned the day after uh this
conflict and also bok's trip to uh
upcoming trip to Israel again did the
meeting touch on what the future could
look like for
Gaza absolutely there are lots of
negotiations happening um behind closed
doors at the moment Qatar is an
important player Egypt is an important
player of the United States but also
Germany which is still one of Israel's
closest allies and yet um analina bbok
stressed that there are certain
conditions that Israel also needs to
fulfill um Riyad al- Maliki also said
that reforms of the Palestinian
Authority of which he's the head are
vital so that the Palestinian population
essentially has a legitimate represent
ation again we mustn't forget that of
course Arad Al Maliki doesn't represent
Hamas he
represents the um the Palestinian
Authority that is based in ramala so um
there needs to be a proper
representation of the Palestinian people
he said that that is very much in his
interest because they all say this
conflict cannot be solved militarily
what is needed is a political solution
and that essentially um a two-state
solution is the only way for forward and
that these preparations need to happen
at the same time Riad Al Maliki was
being very clear he wants Germany to put
pressure on Israel so that Israel also
sees uh the right of the Palestinian
people to have their own State
interesting insights there from our
chief political corespondent nah
haza